Trish and I had the privilege of joining Joel and Lordus Dellinger on branch visits to Mozambique and Angola.
Our Mozambique visas were delayed. They would not be available for pickup until January 6th in Washington, D.C. the day before our departure.
But there was a storm and a power outage on January 6th and the embassy did not open its doors.
So brother from the legal department was at the embassy early on the morning of January 7th, the date of our departure.
He secured the visas in Washington, D.C. caught a train to New York City and handed them to us a half hour before we departed.
Well that heightened the excitement at the start of our visit. But now please follow the rest of the story.
On January 7th, 2015 we first flew by way of Germany and South Africa, landing in Macuto, Mozambique on the east coast of Africa.
For years Mozambique has been one of the most impoverished countries in the world.
However, for the last three years its economy grew 7 to 8%.
This was evident in the new construction that was seen on the trip from the airport to the branch.
However, unlike the economy there, our branch visit revealed that the spiritual vibrancy of Jehovah's Witnesses is at an all-time peak.
Last year they crested the 56,000 publisher figure and well beyond.
From the minute we entered the gate we felt the radiant welcome of this Bethel family.
It didn't take long for Trisha and Lordis to adapt to the joyous Mozambique and spirit.
A branch expansion project is in its early stages. It will include a 30 room residence building.
And we would like all of you future warwick residents to note that the building will have an unobstructed view, not of a small little lake, but of the magnificent Indian Ocean.
Since there are currently about 170 at the branch, some Bethel family members and construction servants live in temporary quarters on site.
The branch is also renting one half of a large house across the road from the entrance to the branch.
And behind the branch they've purchased a portion of a apartment building, shown here with newly painted blue trim for additional housing.
Of course the purpose for the expanded branch facility is in support of the all-important preaching work.
The use of public witnessing carts has become popular in the larger cities such as Maputo.
During the branch visit there was heavy flooding in northern Mozambique. Bridges were destroyed.
This isolated a major portion of the population in that region. 74 homes of our brothers were destroyed.
Other homes of our brothers were flooded with several feet of water and mud.
Trucks were used to carry over 20 tons of relief supplies as far as the roads would allow.
Truck load after truck load was unloaded at this location in Moorambella.
The branch rented a helicopter and it made 30 trips to five different Kingdom Hall locations.
Delivering supplies to our needy brothers and sisters.
They were very appreciative of the immediate response to their plight.
Our meeting with 56 missionaries was introduced by some children from one of the local congregations.
Afterward a special meal was prepared for the missionaries and the Bethel family.
Brother Dillinger was the chairman.
What captured the attention of this Bethel family?
They were focused on some cultural entertainment on stage.
The program ended with what has now become a common practice in our gatherings.
On Sunday a special meeting was held at the Matola Assembly Hall.
The open sighted hall seats about 3,000.
However, almost 18,000 were in attendance.
With most sitting on the ground under trees with loudspeakers connecting them through the program.
All too soon it was time to leave the Children of God in Mozambique.
On January 20th the four of us flew to Lawanda Angola for the branch visit to that country.
It is a sprawling city of well over 5 million people.
There are modern looking apartment buildings.
However, the majority live in less desirable conditions.
But even if one does not read Portuguese, there is no question that this is our JW.org branch property.
It is a very beautiful Bethel facility and has a kingdom hall that local congregations use.
However, it is also used for the Bethel families Monday evening spiritual programs.
This branch supports a growing number of publishers, going well over the 100,000 mark in 2014.
And they conduct over 450,000 Bible studies, averaging over four studies per publisher.
And an interesting phenomenon is that half of those Bible studies are with children and teenagers whose parents are not personally interested in the truth.
These are some of the Bible students in one congregation who have arrived early for the meeting, yes, without their parents.
And amazingly, the vast majority of these dedicate their lives to Jehovah and serve faithfully on into adulthood.
In fact, this is a picture of members of the Bethel family who came from that very background, including one member of the branch committee.
The local Angolans are mild tempered and somewhat reserved or shy by nature.
So early in the visit, we arranged for a meet and greet evening.
We invited the entire branch family to come, even if just for a few minutes before leaving for their congregation meetings.
Brother Mancoca, a dearly beloved 88-year-old member of the branch committee joined the gathering.
During the years when our work was under ban, he was in and out of prison five times, with a total of 18 years in prison.
Well, all bonded and had a lovely time together.
Enthusiasm for the visit was running high.
For the rest of our time there, the dolingers and flow deans were inundated with offers of hospitality with a wonderful Angola Bethel family.
Of course, the primary work on every continent is the preaching of the good news of the kingdom.
Trish and I had the pleasure of joining a missionary couple, now serving at the branch, at a meeting for service in a witness family's humble home.
This was our service group, doing the very same thing that you regularly do in your congregation territory.
And then it was off to the field.
I was happy that we found a young man who spoke English and had a thirst for Bible truth.
It was then off to another part of the territory to conduct a few of those 450,000 Bible studies.
This young man is studying in the God's love book and continues to make fine progress.
Well, here to an Angola, we had a meeting with some of the happy, hardworking missionaries scattered throughout the country.
But the big event was on Sunday.
This was the largest single gathering of Jehovah's Witnesses in Angola's history.
Over 41,000 packed out this large outdoor venue.
Another 11,500 were tied in in their large open-sided assembly hall.
And recordings were made for indigenous language publishers to view on the following weekend.
Interestingly, when they first approached the management, asking to use this facility,
the manager did not feel it would be appropriate to have a religious event in a soccer stadium.
However, simultaneously they had made the same request to the minister of youth and sports.
He agreed with a request and asked permission of the vice president of Angola.
The manager agreed to rent the stadium.
At the conclusion of the program, he came down immediately to tell us how excited he was to have Jehovah's Witnesses at the stadium.
For 20 minutes, he told us how impressed he was with the beautiful people and their exemplary behavior.
But he also actually quoted from our talks, explaining how practical and beneficial it was for all,
but especially for the many young ones in attendance.
We are quite confident this stadium will be used on future occasions by Jehovah's people.
We very much enjoyed our visit to Angola.
But in particular, seeing evidence of our spiritual paradise was the true thrill of the visit.
At the conclusion of our branch visit, the entire Bethel family came down to see us off.
They sang more songs to wish us farewell.
In fact, it was as if they couldn't let Jehovah's.
The feeling was mutual.